OSDOCS-6534: adding CSI snapshotting (#62557)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-storage-vol-snapshot-restore.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// microshift/creating-volume-snapshots-microshift.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="restoring-vol-snapshot-microshift_{context}"]
= Restoring a volume snapshot

The following workflow demonstrates snapshot restoration. In this example, the verification steps are also given to verify that data written to a source PVC is preserved and restored on the new PVC.

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a note somewhere is this section saying, "when restoring a PVC with snapshot datasource, the requested PVC storage capacity should be equal to that of source volumeSnapshot, else restoring a volume snapshot fails".

Author: @radeore Can the destination storage be larger than the source, or does it have to be truly, exactly equal?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that's correct @radeore

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// microshift/volume-snapshots-microshift.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="restoring-vol-snapshot-microshift_{context}"]
= Restoring a volume snapshot

> The following workflow demonstrates snapshot restoration. In this example, the verification steps are also given to ensure that data written to a source `PersistentVolumeClaim` (PVC) is preserved and restored on a new PVC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following workflow demonstrates snapshot restoration. In this example, the verification steps are also given to ensure that data written to a source persistent volume claim (PVC) is preserved and restored on a new PVC.
```
See the repo [glossary](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#persistent-volume-claim-pvc)

[IMPORTANT]
====
A snapshot must be restored to a PVC of exactly the same size as the source volume of the snapshot. You can resize the PVC after the snapshot is restored successfully if a larger PVC is needed.
====

.Procedure

> . Restore a snapshot by specifying the `VolumeSnapshot` object as the `dataSource` in a `PersistentVolumeClaim` by using the following example:

Reviewer 3: I think you can use the generic object references for data source and PVC. If it is important to use the specific API references, then they need to be followed with a noun.

```suggestion
. Restore a snapshot by specifying the `VolumeSnapshot` object as the data source in a persistent volume claim by entering the following command:
```

+
[source, terminal]
----
# oc apply -f <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: snapshot-restore
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  dataSource:
    apiGroup: snapshot.storage.k8s.io
    kind: VolumeSnapshot
    name: my-snap
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 1Gi
  storageClassName: topolvm-provisioner-thin
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: base
spec:
  containers:

>   - command:

Reviewer 4: Same again about the command.

    - sh
    - -c
    - sleep 1d

>     image: nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged:latest

Reviewer 4: This should also use the safe image.

    name: test-container
    securityContext:
      allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
      capabilities:
        drop:
        - ALL
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /vol
      name: test-vol
  securityContext:
    runAsNonRoot: true
    seccompProfile:
      type: RuntimeDefault
  volumes:
  - name: test-vol
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: snapshot-restore
EOF
----

.Verification

. Wait for the pod to reach the `Ready` state:
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc wait --for=condition=Ready pod/base
----

> . Once the new pod is ready, verify that the data from your application is correct in the snapshot. This step is unique to your workflows.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Once the new pod is ready, verify that the data from your application is correct in the snapshot.
```

It seems a bit obvious to say that we can't tell them how to verify their application's data.
